# CA-Init-Container
This project provides a set of Dockerfiles designed to override the /etc/ssl directory in other Docker images.
Its main purpose is to inject custom CA certificates into other images without requiring a full rebuild.
 
## How to use
Here are a few docker compose examples on the Wiki:
- [Home Assistant](Example:-Home-Assistant)
- [Miniflux](Example:-Miniflux)
- [Uptime Kuma](Example:-Uptime-Kuma)

## How to tell if it worked
The easiest way is to look into the target container's ssl directory and see if a generated-by-cainit file exists there.
```
❯ docker exec -it miniflux-miniflux-1 ls -la /etc/ssl generated-by-cainit*
-rw-r--r--    1 root     root             0 Nov 27 16:28 generated-by-cainit-20241127-162837
```

As such, the operation was successful, and the target container is now using the certificates generated by the init container.

### Troubleshooting
- If the target container is not using the certificates generated by the init container, check the logs of the init container. It should contain information about what it did.

## Using the correct Dockerfile
Ideally one would use the same base image that is going to be "enhanced". For example, miniflux is based on alpine, so the correct Dockerfile to use would be `Dockerfile.cert-inject-alpine`.

| For Distro | Dockerfile |
-------------|------------|
| Ubuntu | [Dockerfile.cert-inject-debian](./Dockerfile.cert-inject-debian) |
| Debian | [Dockerfile.cert-inject-debian](./Dockerfile.cert-inject-debian) |
| Alpine | [Dockerfile.cert-inject-alpine](./Dockerfile.cert-inject-alpine) |

## Caveats
- In case your base image has a modified ca-certificates.crt, ca-init-container will likely break it (i.e. it will replace it with the one from the certs folder).
- The certs folder should contain the CA certificates in PEM format, with the .crt extension. The files should be named after the CA they represent (i.e. root_ca.crt, intermediate_ca.pem, etc).
